# SmartOS Previews

This page serves as a way for folks who are interested in things that
will be coming to SmartOS soon to be able to try them out. These are all
previews, they should not be used in production, there may be bugs, etc.
Without further ado, here's what's currently in progress:

## USB to Fast Ethernet Drivers

[Masa Murayama](http://homepage2.nifty.com/mrym3/taiyodo/eng/) has put
together a series of USB to Fast Ethernet devices for a wide array of
devices. We often get questions about them in `#smartos`. Masa was happy
to see them get pulled into illumos, so this workspace does exactly
that. This covers his `axf`, `upf`, `urf`, and `udmf` drivers. Which
covers over 100 different USB to Ethernet devices.

  * USB->Ethernet build date: 28 Feb 2014
  * [ISO](./usbgem/img/platform-20140228T030624Z.iso)
  * [Platform](./usbgem/img/platform-20140228T030624Z.tgz)
  * [USB](./usbgem/img/platform-20140228T030624Z.usb.bz2)
  * [illumos changes](./usbgem/code/illumos/index.html)
  * [smartos changes](./usbgem/code/smartos/index.html)

## Bardiche

Bardiche is a project that is redesigning how others might consume a
layer 2 datapath in the system. This is primarily aimed at solving the
problem for virtualization, but it can also be consumed for anything
which wishes to have a high throughput layer 2 datapath. More
importantly, it allows these applications to utilize the various
features that Fire Engine and Crossbow have brought to the networking
stack, while creating a foundation for leveraging the capabilities of
the system in a way that we can't today.

Bardiche has it's own dedicated page currently available
[here](../bardiche/bardiche.html).

## Old work

The following previous preview pieces have since been integrated.

The SIGINFO preview was resolved in commit
[19d32b9ab53d17ac6605971e14c45a5281f8d9bb](https://github.com/joyent/illumos-joyent/commit/19d32b9ab53d17ac6605971e14c45a5281f8d9bb).
SmartOS releases after 21 Jan 2014 should contain this change.


## Contact

For questions, comments, thoughts, feedback, and anything else, talk to
Robert Mustacchi, `rmustacc` in `#illumos` and `#smartos` on
`irc.freenode.net`. Alternatively, send e-mail to
`smartos-discuss@lists.smartos.org` or ping him directly.
